- [Instructor] Within our Jenkins pipeline,
we'll need to define the different stages and steps
that will execute the CI process.
This starts by adding a stages block
inside the pipeline section of the script.
Inside of this block,
we can add individual stages
that we'll execute as part of the pipeline.
So let's go ahead and we'll add a stage
that builds our application.
You just provide the name of the stage here.
This stage will compile our application source code
and then package the application into an archive like a jar.
A stage is like a group of commands.
And in the pipeline, those commands are known as steps.
So let's add a steps block inside of our stage.
And then the first step we'll execute is the sh step.
It allows us to execute shell commands
inside of our pipeline.
Now, eventually, we'll be building the application
withMaven here.
But for now, let's just echo some output to the console
so that we can watch our pipeline execute.
So here, I'll say Performing Maven Build.
Okay, now we have our first stage.
Let's go ahead and we'll copy this.
And then we'll build out some of the other stages
within our CI process.
After the application's built,
we'll need to create a container image
that we'll use to run the application.
So here, I'm just going to update the name of the stage
to Build Container Image,
and then we'll change the output to the console
to reflect that.
Okay, now we have the stage that builds our container image.
After that, we'll need to publish the image
to a container registry.
So let's add a final stage into our pipeline
and we'll update the name
to indicate that we're publishing the image.
And then once again,
we'll change the output
so that we can see that information
as our pipeline executes.
So now, our pipeline starting to shape up,
we have three stages that correspond with the work
we'll perform in CI process.
But right now, our pipeline isn't generic enough
to build each of our services.
Let's pick up there in our next lesson.